I'm not done yet!
Over here!
Fate took us straight to the Leaf's Sannin.
What do you want?
We finally found him.
We found Jiraiya Sensei.
Damn! Enemies?!
Run now!
Nagato, go!
But I couldn't truly accept a Leaf Ninja.
I'm sure you would understand why.
What did I really lose that day?
ano hi honto ni ushinatta monotte nan dattakke
For the life of me, I can't remember.
tou ni wasureteshimatta yo
We slowly lost sight of each other in the twilight...
yuugure de futari sukoshizutsu mienakunatteitte
And yet we're stuck here - unable to go home.
sore nanoni bokura kaerezu ni ita
Weak, frail souls lost in the world...
dokoka ni kowaresou na moroi kokoro
We act strong to hide their fragility.
tsuyogaru kotoba de ootte kakushiteru
Hide their fragility... ootte kakushiteru
So farewell, but even forced apart...
sayonara aenakunattatte Our stories go on.
bokura wa tsuzuki ga aru kara
Even in a world without you, I run.
kimi no inai sekai datte hashiru yo
To someday get past the pain.
itsuka no itami mo koete
koete Someday...
Origin of Pain Origin of Pain Teach us ninjutsu.
You're all ninja from the Hidden Leaf, right?
Thank you. This is for you.
Shall I kill these children?
Wha-?!
I've seen many war orphans. It's pitiful.
They would be better off
if we just put them out of their misery right now.
Orochimaru, enough!
You go on ahead with Tsunade.
I'll stay here and look after them for a while.
Huh?!
It is the least I can do.
My parents were killed by ninja of the Hidden Leaf.
- Thank you for the food! - Thank you for the food!
Grilled fish in an instant
- with my Fire Style Jutsu. - But Jiraiya Sensei seemed
a little different than them.
Sensei! I'm getting the hang of fishing!
Oh yeah? You're becoming more and more promising!
The four of us started living together.
Soon after, a certain incident took place.
Incident?
Yahiko!
A lingering ninja attacked us and nearly killed Yahiko.
That is when I struck out and killed that ninja instead.
And I did it...without realizing it.
Are you all right, Yahiko?!
It seems I possessed a special power.
The Ocular Jutsu known as the Rinnegan.
As a result, Jiraiya Sensei, who had been hesitant about training us,
began to teach us ninjutsu.
He said he was teaching us so we could protect ourselves.
But I think, in my case,
it was so I could control the power of the Rinnegan.
But I was afraid of my power.
Hate had caused me to go berserk.
I thought what I did was wrong and was consumed with guilt.
But Sensei pulled me from the depths.
Is it about that incident?
That day...
When that man hurt Yahiko, I was so mad at him.
Everything went blank in my head.
I didn't know what I was doing.
Before I realized it, the man was dead.
After that, I got so scared.
This hatred made me lose myself... and I killed someone.
What I did was wrong!
There had to be a better way!
Nagato!
I really don't know if it was right or wrong.
But thanks to you, Yahiko didn't die.
You protected your friend.
That had to be the right thing to do.
No one can blame you for that.
Before I realized it, I had already accepted Sensei.
When you are hurt, you learn to hate.
On the other hand, when you hurt someone, you are resented.
But you start to feel guilty as well.
However, understanding such pain enables you to be kind to others.
Knowing pain helps us to grow up, to mature.
And to grow up means being able to think
and make one's decisions on their own.
To know and reflect on pain, and come up with your own answer.
Jiraiya Sensei seemed to be asking himself the same question.
He hadn't found an answer either.
Just like you haven't.
Back then, I was able to come up with an answer right away.
I just want to protect those two.
No matter what kind of pain I have to endure.
I see.
What are you always pondering, Sensei?
There is so much war in this world.
Only hatred exists. I want to do something about it.
And to know what the answer to true peace is.
Three years passed.
I felt that I had grown stronger physically and mentally through training.
But Jiraiya Sensei's words always kept coming back to me
from somewhere deep inside.
Sensei had told me that perhaps the answer rested in my Rinnegan.
Long ago, people constantly fought.
Wars never ended. It was an age far worse than today.
In such an age, there appeared a monk who, for the first time,
preached the truth of chakra and tried to bring peace to the world.
It is said he traveled throughout the world advocating his teachings,
which he called ninshu.
Time passed and ninshu became known as ninjutsu.
Ninjutsu isn't about armed power.
It is a teaching that guides people towards peace.
This monk was known as the Sage of the Six Paths
and was called the savior of this world.
Like you, he possessed the Rinnegan.
"We are the ones who create peace and order."
Those are the monk's words.
He must have believed that
the era would come when people truly understood each other.
Maybe...you are the reincarnation of that monk.
I have a feeling that those eyes of yours
have been entrusted with the monk's hopes.
Sensei entrusted me with the quest for peace,
and then left us by ourselves.
With Yahiko as our leader, we began to take action.
Our organization quickly gained fame.
People approved of our efforts to build peace without the use of force.
But the world was at war.
The Three Great Nations' War between the Stone, Leaf and Sand villages.
Hanzo, the leader of the Hidden Rain,
heard rumors about our organization and approached us.
We couldn't be ignored anymore.
He wanted to use us as the axis to negotiate peace
with the three Great Nations.
We were to use our power to secure an agreement of peace
among the three nations.
We agreed to cooperate with his proposal.
But that was the beginning of all of our misfortunes.
We were naive children.
Misfortunes?
What happened?
Because of that, Yahiko died.
Died?!
It was all a trap laid by Hanzo.
He suspected that
we would steal his power over the Hidden Rain from him.
For that reason alone, Yahiko was...
The following day,
we went to a certain location to make arrangements.
Hanzo's subordinates and the Leaf's Anbu Black Ops were already there.
Hanzo had schemed with a man named Danzo from the Hidden Leaf
to get rid of us.
Danzo teamed up with Hanzo in order to usurp the seat of Hokage.
Hanzo teamed up with Danzo to protect his own position of power.
Your organization is a nuisance to me.
Yahiko...
You are the leader, so you must die.
If you resist, this woman will die.
You! The red-haired one.
Use that to kill Yahiko.
Then I will spare you and the woman.
Don't, Nagato!
Never mind me!
Both of you escape!
Nagato.
Kill me.
I just want to protect those two.
No matter what kind of pain I have to endure.
Nagato!
No!
Hurry it up.
Or do you want this woman to die?!
Konan...
Yahi-!
You and Konan must survive... no matter what it takes.
You are...the savior...of this world.
I know...
you can...do it.
Yahiko!
I have a huge dream!
Kill them!
If the fighting doesn't stop...
I'll become the god of this world!
He repelled it!
How?!
Did we get him?
Nagato... Konan, hold onto Yahiko and stay still.
Not bad, kid!
You escaped even while being hit by my Fire Style Jutsu!
You're no ordinary kid.
Those eyes...
Get him!
Summoning Jutsu!
Gedo Statue!
This is...
What...is that?!
Nagato... No! Don't use that!
We're dead if that touches us!
So you were the leader behind the scenes.
It's quite a surprise that you possess the Rinnegan.
Nagato...
Teleportation Jutsu!
Yahiko died...
And from then on, I took over as the leader of our organization.
I thought I had grown up.
But nothing had changed at all.
It was just like the time my parents died.
I was wrong.
I realized that the answer I had come up with
was nothing more than crap.
I owed him my life. He was my dream.
He was my irreplaceable friend for whom I would have gladly died.
Yahiko's death...
That was my second pain.
When the fireworks suddenly explode in the air...
fui ni agatta hanabi wo futari de miageta toki
I couldn't keep my eyes off from your face...
muchuu de miteru kimi no kao wo
sotto nusumimita no I gazed at you quietly...
It'd be so much easier if I was able to hate you...
kimi no koto kirai ni naretara ii noni
Because I always remember you, in situations like this...
kyou mitai na hi ni wa kitto
I can't help but think about the times we spent together.
mata omoidashiteshimau yo
I'm ready to forget you...
mou wasureyou kimi no koto zenbu
It just tears at my heart too much.
konna ni mo kanashikute
I wonder... why did we meet each other?
doushite deatteshimattan darou When I close my eyes...
me wo tojireba It's like you are here.
ima mo kimi ga soko ni iru you de
It appears to have ended.
How did it turn out?
It is as my vision foretold.
Though I never thought it would end like this.
Perhaps in that moment when Jiraiya chose not to give up,
all this became preordained.
Next time on Naruto Shippuden: "Tale of Naruto Uzumaki"
This is my answer!
It's been such a long time since
all three of us got together!
You're right about that.
Not since we were reunited during the invasion of Hidden Leaf Village.
The days of the Ino-Shika-Cho Trio
when we were renown across the nations...
That was so long ago.
We're not has-beens yet!
Say, why don't we do "that" for old times' sake?
Sounds good.
Let's do it.
Formation! Ino!
- Shika! - Cho!
We've still got it!
But you can't beat old comrades, eh?
Huh?
By the way, didn't we invite someone else today?
We ran into him yesterday.
Oh yeah, we talked about getting together for a meal.
Who was it?
Think hard!
Forgetting a comrade is the first sign of dementia!
Sir...
May I take your order?
It's been two hours since I ordered.
Huh?! I'm so sorry!
I guess being forgotten runs in the family.
Tune in again!